Docs - supervisor spec links (#16988)
apache/druid: docs/ingestion/supervisor.md

  -->

A supervisor manages streaming ingestion from external streaming sources into Apache Druid.

Supervisors oversee the state of indexing tasks to coordinate [handoffs](../design/storage#indexing-and-handoff), manage failures, and ensure that the scalability and replication requirements are maintained.

:::info
This topic uses the Apache Kafka term _offset_ to refer to the identifier for records in a partition. If you are using Amazon Kinesis, the equivalent is _sequence number_.
:::

> Druid uses a JSON document, often referred to as a supervisor spec, to specify how Druid should consume, process, and index streaming data. A supervisor spec is a type of [native ingestion spec](../ingestion/ingestion-spec.md).

Reviewer: Why did you choose to replace "JSON specification" with "JSON document"?

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Druid uses a JSON formatted supervisor spec, to specify how Druid should consume, process, and index streaming data. A supervisor spec is a type of [native ingestion spec](../ingestion/ingestion-spec.md).
```
It is not "often referred to" but always a "supervisor spec". JSON document reads vaguely here.

The following table outlines the high-level configuration options for a supervisor spec:

|Property|Type|Description|Required|
|--------|----|-----------|--------|

> |`type`|String|The type of ingestion to supervise, one of [`kafka`](kafka-ingestion.md) or [`kinesis`](kinesis-ingestion.md).|Yes|

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|`type`|String|The type of ingestion to supervise. One of [`kafka`](kafka-ingestion.md) or [`kinesis`](kinesis-ingestion.md).|Yes|
```

|[`spec`](#spec)|Object|The container object for the supervisor configuration.|Yes|

> |`suspended`|Boolean|Puts the supervisor in a suspended state|No|

Reviewer: Is `suspended` on the same level as `type` and `spec`? I thought it was part of the status report.

> ## `spec`

Reviewer: Hm, I am not sure if presenting the information this way makes it easer to comprehend. Personally, I think it's beneficial to include `dataSchema`, `ioConfig`, and `tuningConfig` in the high-level configurations table. Especially, since both `dataSchema` and `ioConfig` are required.  If you prefer to move them to a separate section, I think we should keep the existing descriptions and update the style of the bullet points. For example:

```suggestion
- `dataSchema`: Schema for the indexing task to use during ingestion.
- `ioConfig`: I/O configuration object to define the connection and I/O-related settings for the supervisor and indexing tasks.
- `tuningConfig`: Tuning configuration object to define performance-related settings for the supervisor and indexing tasks.
```

The `spec` section consists of three components:

- `dataSchema`. The schema for the indexing task to use during ingestion.
- [`ioConfig`](#ioconfig), which tells Druid how to connect to the [source system](./index.md#ingestion-methods) and how to parse data.
- [`tuningConfig`](#tuningconfig), which controls performance-related settings for the supervisor and indexing tasks.

For configuration properties shared across all ingestion methods supported by Druid, including the `dataSchema`, see [native ingestion specs](../ingestion/ingestion-spec.md).

### `ioConfig`

The `ioConfig` influences how data is read from a source system. See native ingestion specification documentation on the [`ioConfig`](../ingestion/ingestion-spec.md#ioconfig) for more information.

> The following table outlines the configuration properties that apply to supervisor-led ingestion methods, including Apache Kafka and Amazon Kinesis.

Reviewer: I think the original version was easier to read and comprehend.

> The `ioConfig` influences how data is read from a source system. See native ingestion specification documentation on the [`ioConfig`](../ingestion/ingestion-spec.md#ioconfig) for more information.
> 
> The following table outlines the configuration properties that apply to supervisor-led ingestion methods, including Apache Kafka and Amazon Kinesis.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `ioConfig` defines how Druid should read data from a source system. See native ingestion specification documentation on the [`ioConfig`](../ingestion/ingestion-spec.md#ioconfig) for more information.

The following table outlines the configuration properties that apply to streaming ingestion supervisors, including Apache Kafka and Amazon Kinesis.
```

Author: Applied this change across all affected pages.

:::info
This topic uses the Apache Kafka term _offset_ to refer to the identifier for records in a partition. If you are using Amazon Kinesis, the equivalent is _sequence number_.
:::

Druid uses a JSON formatted supervisor spec, to specify how Druid should consume, process, and index streaming data. A supervisor spec is a type of [native ingestion spec](ingestion-spec.md).

The following table outlines the high-level configuration options for a supervisor spec:

|Property|Type|Description|Required|
|--------|----|-----------|--------|
|`type`|String|The type of ingestion to supervise. One of [`kafka`](kafka-ingestion.md) or [`kinesis`](kinesis-ingestion.md).|Yes|
|[`spec`](#spec)|Object|The container object for the supervisor configuration.|Yes|
|`suspended`|Boolean|Puts the supervisor in a suspended state|No|

## `spec`

The `spec` section contains three parts:

- `dataSchema`: The schema for the indexing task to use during ingestion.
- [`ioConfig`](#ioconfig): Instructs Druid how to connect to the [source system](./index.md#ingestion-methods) and how to parse data.
- [`tuningConfig`](#tuningconfig): Controls performance-related settings for the supervisor and indexing tasks.

> For configuration properties shared across all ingestion methods supported by Druid, see [native ingestion specs](ingestion-spec.md).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For configuration properties shared across all ingestion methods supported by Druid, see [Ingestion spec reference](ingestion-spec.md).
```

### `ioConfig`

> The `ioConfig` defines how Druid reads data from a source system. See native ingestion specification documentation on the [`ioConfig`](ingestion-spec.md#ioconfig) for more information.

Reviewer: Should we be calling it "classic batch ingestion" instead of "native ingestion"?

```
</details>

### `tuningConfig`

> The `tuningConfig` controls various tuning parameters specific to each ingestion method. See native ingestion specification documentation on the [`tuningConfig`](ingestion-spec.md#tuningconfig) for more information.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `tuningConfig` object controls various tuning parameters specific to each ingestion method. See native ingestion specification documentation on [`tuningConfig`](ingestion-spec.md#tuningconfig) for more information.
```

Reviewer: Native ingestion or classic batch?

> The `tuningConfig` controls various tuning parameters specific to each ingestion method. See native ingestion specification documentation on the [`tuningConfig`](../ingestion/ingestion-spec.md#tuningconfig) for more information.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `tuningConfig` controls various tuning parameters specific to each ingestion method. See native ingestion specification documentation on the [`tuningConfig`](../ingestion/ingestion-spec.md#tuningconfig) for more information.
```
Is this link correct (../ingestion/ingestion-spec.md#tuningconfig)? Shouldn't it be (ingestion/ingestion-spec.md#tuningconfig)?

The `tuningConfig` object is optional. If you don't specify the `tuningConfig` object, Druid uses the default configuration settings.

> For configuration properties specific to Kafka and Kinesis, see [Kafka  `tuningConfig`](kafka-ingestion.md#tuningconfig) and [Kinesis `tuningConfig`](kinesis-ingestion.md#tuningconfig) respectively.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
For configuration properties specific to Kafka and Kinesis, see [Kafka `tuningConfig`](kafka-ingestion.md#tuningconfig) and [Kinesis `tuningConfig`](kinesis-ingestion.md#tuningconfig) respectively.
```

> The following table outlines the tuning properties that apply to all streaming ingestion methods, including Apache Kafka and Amazon Kinesis.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following table outlines the tuning properties that apply to all streaming ingestion methods, including Kafka and Kinesis.
```
